# Report of meeting of TM Subcommittee during INTERMAGNET Rio de Janeiro meeting, 7th and 8th  November 2024

## Attendees
- Stephan Bracke
- Chris Turbitt
- Jürgen Matzka
- Andrew Lewis
- David Boteler

## TM Subcommittee agenda, November 2024

* Review of May 2023 actions items 
* Release of Technical Manual 5.1.0 
* Technical Manual 
  * DOI and how to work with it 
  * Start a collaborated work on it 
    * reviews on development branch
    * new chapters on seperated branches
*  Introducing IYFV 1.03
* WEB
  * work with links to the Technical Manual
  * discussion on where to find what for data downloads 
  * FAQ maintenance
* Next release to plan in phases
* Need for new members



## Action items from november 2024 meeting 

|  Number   |   Responsible   | Description                                                                                                                                                                      | Status      |
|:---------:|:---------------:|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| **TM.01** |       AL        | Include Data Checkers  in acknowledgment                                                                                                                                         | Done        |
| **TM.02** |      AL/SB      | Add the definition of IYFV 1.03 to the TM                                                                                                                                        | Not started |
| **TM.03** |       AL        | Add conditions of use CC-BY-NC 4.0                                                                                                                                               | Done         |
| **TM.04** |       CT        | Production of QD-Data; incorporate JM’s proposal from the updated FAQ (June 2020) into the Technical Manual or a combination of the essentials and some references to the FAQ.   | Not started |
| **TM.05** |       CT        | Appendix A-1: Many of the definitions are specific to either IMFV1.22 or satellite transmission data formats e.g. “time stamp” and “flags”. Add general terminology definitions. | Not started |
| **TM.06** |       JM        | Appendix C-1: G represents ΔF (see description below) but description hard to find                                                                                               | Not started |
| **TM.07** |       JM        | Appendix C-1: Orientation of “UVZ” has no definition in Section 6.1.3 Generate a table of the various orientations for the Technical Manual.                                     | Not started |
| **TM.08** |      JM/SB      | Generate a DOI for the current release V-5.1.1  (SB send PDF)                                                                                                                    | Done        |
| **TM.09** |       CT        | Appendix C-4: Delete section on CD-ROM Software                                                                                                                                  | Not started |
| **TM.10** |       SB        | Add links to previous version via DOI on the website publications                                                                                                                | Done        |
| **TM.11** |       SB        | transform documentation made to contribute into MD locally and remote                                                                                                            | Not started |
| **TM.12** |       SB        | update organisational structure in TM                                                                                                                                            | Done        |
| **TM.13** |       SB        | organise video intermediate videoconferences                                                                                                                                     | Done        |
| **TM.14** | DD subcomittee  | Provide text for the TM on the use of flags as a separate metadata field (ref. DD31) (also in CDF)                                                                               | Ongoing     |
| **TM.15** | DD subcomittee  | Add a section on Auto D&I and Auto Baseline.                                                                                                                                     | Not started |
| **TM.16** | GIN subcomittee | flagging of data could be available in MQTT,CDF and ...                                                                                                                          | Ongoing     |
| **TM.17** | GIN subcomittee | Validate the following information: “1-second data: Available to users within 30 seconds" != (6.2.3 page 31) at the end "IMO may not make more than 1440 uploads per day"        | Not started |
| **TM.18** | GIN subcomittee | Provide input for  a chapter on MQTT                                                                                                                                             | Ongoing     |
| **TM.19** | TM subcomittee  | review web site and suggest needed corrections and better integration with TM                                                                                                    | Ongoing     |
| **TM.20** |       SF        | Add information of usage and download possibility of definitive data via the DOIs and specifiy   the differences                                                                 | Done        |
| **TM.21** |       SF        | Minor update to CDF format                                                                                                                                                       | Done        |
| **TM.22** |       AL        | Update contact info in appendices                                                                                                                                                | Done |

Extra:

* Investigation how to limit space on website
* Extra admins for readthedocs

